---
Title: My First Blog, whoami
Date: 09-02-2021
---

Hello world!  

  My name is Jomar Rivera and I am an aspiring Information Security professional. I am, at the time of this writing, 31 years old and in the process of grinding out a career change coming from the automotive field. I was a BMW master technician for roughly 9 years before deciding I wanted to make a change in my life. I've since learned a lot about myself. I was proficient at, and passionate about, diagnostic troubleshooting especially concerning electronic engine-management systems and the various Controller Area Network bus systems within BMW automobiles.  
  I was also 1 out of the only 2 techs in my dealership trained and specialized for working on the BMW high voltage electric vehicles and hybrids, the i3 & i8 models. To put it plainly, I am very technical minded and was recognized as such by my shop foreman and service managers whom hand picked me for this training. Many of my fellow co-workers often came to me for guidance and advice on electrical diagnosis and I would review fault codes with them, help them determine methodologies and test plans, and finding solutions for repair. Also have experience with documentation on repair orders (concern, cause, correction) and internal network computer programs (shop notes) to maintain a streamlined communication process with service advisors and the parts department. They often publicly applauded me for well-written, clear and presentable documentation!  
  Okay, enough tooting my own horn here. I wrote all of that to say this. I believe I have a lot of traits that are translatable and conducive to a career in InfoSec. Super excited and admittedly anxious about breaking into the field! I have no formal IT experience or degree. Completely working my way up from a ground level foundation and self-learning from various online resources. It can be daunting at moments, but I'm totally investing in myself. This line of work seriously piques my interest from a technical knowledge standpoint. On top of that, it's a career that's seemingly booming right now with an expanding need and potential for lucrative earnings.  
  I've been flirting with the idea of using this github webpage to kind of chronicle my humble beginnings into this venture. I envision this being a space where I am able to practice write-ups and documenting some of the hands-on mechanisms such as wargames, tryhackme, capture the flags, etc that I'll try along the way. Not only will it be good practice for technical reports but also I figure it would be useful as a display of experience and progress that I may be able to use to present on a resume to potential recruiters. I may also use this to host think-tank blogs related to my InfoSec journey. Lastly, I just recently purchased 14 books ranging from incident response, pentesting, and python programming. I think I may write brief book reviews to document my readings. I'll conclude this blog with the list of books on the current agenda. Thank you for reading my first blog entry.  



1) The Pentester Blueprint: Starting a Career As An Ethical Hacker by Phillip L. Wylie & Kim Crawley (finished reading)  
2) Linux Basics For Hackers: Getting Started With Networking, Scripting, and Security in Kali by OccupyTheWeb (currently reading)  
3) The Hacker Playbook: Practical Guide To Penetration Testing by Peter Kim  

4) Basic Security Testing With Kali Linux, Third Edition by Daniel W. Dieterle  
5) Metasploit Penetration Testing Cookbook, Second Edition by Monika Agarwal & Abhinav Singh  
6) The Threat Intelligence Handbook: A Practical Guide For Security Teams To Unlocking The Power of Intelligence by Recorded Future  

7) Blue Team Handbook: Incident Response Edition. A Condensed Field Guide For The Cyber Security Incident Responder by Don Murdoch  
8) Intelligence-Driven Incident Response: Outwitting The Adversary by Scott J. Roberts & Rebekah Brown  
9) The Risk Business: What CISOs Need To Know About Risk-Based Cybersecurity by Levi Gundert  

10) Violent Python: A Cookbook For Hackers, Forensic Analysts, Penetration Testers, and Security Engineers by TJ O'Connor  
11) Black Hat Python: Python Programming For Hackers and Pentesters, Second Edition by Justin Seitz and Tim Arnold  
12) Gray Hat Python: Python Programming For Hackers and Reverse Engineers by Justin Seitz  

13) Social Engineering: The Science of Human Hacking, Second Edition by Christopher Hadnagy  
14) Red Team Field Manual by Ben Clark  
